docs/index.md, before:

## Documentation

### Setting up

Install npm dependencies:

```console
$ npm install
```

### Developing

```console
$ npm run dev

# or open a browser tab
$ npm run dev -- --open
```

### Building

For production builds:

```console
$ npm run build
```

To preview it locally:

```console
$ npm run preview
```

### Endpoints

There are a couple of routing API endpoints that I use for the blog.

-   `/blog/[slug].raw`
-   `/blog/all.raw`

These are used to fetch a single article's data, or data for every article.

### Writing a new article

All of the article content is stored in `src/lib/articles/`. To write a new article:

#### 1. Create a new directory.

The name of the directory will match the url slug. All past articles follow the format `{year}-{month}-{date}_{summary}`. For example, `2021-08-16_odoo-patterns-humble-object`. That article will be available at `/blog/2021-08-16_odoo-patterns-humble-object`.

#### 2. Add a `meta.js`.

Inside of the article directory create `meta.js`:

```js
import { Meta, Tags } from '$lib/blog';

export default new Meta({
    id: '2021-09-09_how-i-manage-local-development-odoo-projects',
    title: 'How I manage hundreds of local development Odoo projects',
    datePosted: '2021-09-09 14:02:00',
    coverImage: '/images/articles/how-i-manage-local-development-odoo-projects/cover.jpg',
    thumbnailImage: '/images/articles/how-i-manage-local-development-odoo-projects/cover-min.jpg',
    description: 'I documented my process for managing Odoo projects for local development.',
    contentSnippet: `
    <p>
        <span class="first-letter">O</span>doo development has a unique set of problems
        that I have not dealt with in any other web development project. The
        main issue in my experience stems from yearly, non backwards compatible
        upgrades.
    </p>
    `,
    tags: [Tags.OpenSource, Tags.Python, Tags.Odoo, Tags.SoftwareCraftsmanship],
    related: [
        '2021-06-03_odoo-docker-quickstart',
        '2016-03-03_managing-multiple-odoo-instances',
        '2021-08-16_odoo-patterns-humble-object',
    ],
});
```

#### 3. Create a static folder if needed.

The static images for articles are stored in `static/images/articles`. If the article has a cover image or thumbnail, put those here.

#### 4. Create a `Content.svelte`.

Pure html. Simple as that.

Commit message:

[ADD] travis & skeleton testing suite setup
This creates a skeleton for two test suites:
- unit
- endpoint

The endpoint tests are e2e/integration tests. I'm using Playwright to do
this. I added chrome and firefox devices for desktop and mobile
initially.

The unit tests are using uvu. The core svelte developers are using uvu
to test their code, so going with that since it will remain stable and
supported and I can look to the core code for examples.

The general travis process at this point looks like:
- Ubuntu bionic container
- Node 15
- Notifies on failure
- Includes Playwright apt dependencies
- Runs tests using `npm test`

docs/index.md, after:

## Documentation

### Setting up

Install npm dependencies:

```console
$ npm install
$ npx playwright install
```

### Developing

```console
$ npm run dev

# or open a browser tab
$ npm run dev -- --open
```

### Building

For production builds:

```console
$ npm run build
```

To preview it locally:

```console
$ npm run preview
```

### Testing

```console
$ npm run test --slient
```

There are two sets of tests. One for testing endpoints (integration) and another for unit testing. They can be run individually:

```console
$ npm run test:endpoint --silent
$ npm run test:unit --silent
```

[Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is used for the endpoint tests and [uvu](https://github.com/lukeed/uvu/) is used for the unit tests.

### Endpoints

There are a couple of routing API endpoints that I use for the blog.

-   `/blog/[slug].raw`
-   `/blog/all.raw`

These are used to fetch a single article's data, or data for every article.

### Writing a new article

All of the article content is stored in `src/lib/articles/`. To write a new article:

#### 1. Create a new directory.

The name of the directory will match the url slug. All past articles follow the format `{year}-{month}-{date}_{summary}`. For example, `2021-08-16_odoo-patterns-humble-object`. That article will be available at `/blog/2021-08-16_odoo-patterns-humble-object`.

#### 2. Add a `meta.js`.

Inside of the article directory create `meta.js`:

```js
import { Meta, Tags } from '$lib/blog';

export default new Meta({
    id: '2021-09-09_how-i-manage-local-development-odoo-projects',
    title: 'How I manage hundreds of local development Odoo projects',
    datePosted: '2021-09-09 14:02:00',
    coverImage: '/images/articles/how-i-manage-local-development-odoo-projects/cover.jpg',
    thumbnailImage: '/images/articles/how-i-manage-local-development-odoo-projects/cover-min.jpg',
    description: 'I documented my process for managing Odoo projects for local development.',
    contentSnippet: `
    <p>
        <span class="first-letter">O</span>doo development has a unique set of problems
        that I have not dealt with in any other web development project. The
        main issue in my experience stems from yearly, non backwards compatible
        upgrades.
    </p>
    `,
    tags: [Tags.OpenSource, Tags.Python, Tags.Odoo, Tags.SoftwareCraftsmanship],
    related: [
        '2021-06-03_odoo-docker-quickstart',
        '2016-03-03_managing-multiple-odoo-instances',
        '2021-08-16_odoo-patterns-humble-object',
    ],
});
```

#### 3. Create a static folder if needed.

The static images for articles are stored in `static/images/articles`. If the article has a cover image or thumbnail, put those here.

#### 4. Create a `Content.svelte`.

Pure html. Simple as that.
